A philosophy of software design: Chapter 5 summary (#11)
Entropy1729/hacking_learning_path: philosophy_of_software_design/README.md

- The interfaces reflects a simpler and more abstract view of the module's capability so it reduces the cognitive-load for other developers.
- It makes easier to evolve the system since the hidden information it's not being used outside the module.

The best form of information hiding is when information is totally hidden within a module so is invisible to users of the module. Declaring methods or variables as _private_ can help but getters and setters make the information as public as if the variables were public.

The opposite of information hiding is _information leakage_. This occurs when the same knowledge is used in multiple places creating a dependency between modules. There's two common natures of information leakage, leaking through the interface or back-door leakage when two modules depends on the same piece of knowledge so if a change is needed both modules will need to be modified.

> _Temporal decomposition_ is a design style which incurs on information leakage. In temporal decomposition the structure of a system corresponds to the time order in which operations will occur. For example operations that happen at different times are in different methods or classes. When designing modules, focus on the knowledge that's needed to perform each task, not the order in which tasks occur.

Reviewer: I suggest removing this paragraph since it's hard to get the idea without an example (and an example is not worth the space)

> Information hiding can often be improved by making a module slightly larger. All the code for one capability should be in one single module to produce simpler interfaces. Default values illustrate an example of partial information hiding, whenever possible a module should "do the right thing" without explicitly declaring to it. Information hiding also applies within a module encapsulating information between methods and minimizing the places where variables needs to be accessed by other methods. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Information hiding can often be improved by making a module slightly larger. All the code for one capability should be in one single module to produce simpler interfaces (this relates to the module depth idea from previous chapter). Default values illustrate an example of partial information hiding, whenever possible a module should "do the right thing" without explicitly declaring to it. Information hiding also applies within a module encapsulating information between methods and minimizing the places where variables needs to be accessed by other methods. 
```

> It's important to not hide information if the information is needed outside its module or if it affect directly on the module behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's important to not hide information if the information is needed outside its module or if it directly affects the module behaviour.
```
